**A few issues/questions to consider for discussion:**

- How does Jesus initially relate to the Samaritan woman? What does He ask of her and why?
	- Water
- How does Jesus bring up the “spiritual” conversation?
	- Living water
- Do the Samaritans think they have as much right to worship God as the Jews? Why or why not? Who does the woman cite as her father in a spiritual sense? (see John 4:12)
	- Jacob/Israel
- Are the Samaritans foreigners or Jews? 
	- Half jews
- What commandment does Jesus point to that reveals the Samaritan woman’s personal sin? Notice how He does this. Is there any insight here into how we should use the Law in evangelism? If so, what are the insights?
	- He doesn't "point to a commandment."
	- It reveals him as a prophet. "He's told me everything he ever does." No conviction of sin.
- How does Jesus know when to reveal Himself as the Messiah? More importantly, what can we learn from this Christ’s “method” for lack of a better word?
	- Hints at it in everlasting life from water
- Ultimately, does the woman obey Christ to “go call her husband” in sense?
- When the disciples arrive, why are they shocked (marveled) that Jesus is speaking with a woman, much less a Samaritan woman?
	- Cultural context
- The text suggest the Samaritans were anticipating that Christ was coming. (see John 4:25) Why?
	- Historical promises
- Jesus says to His disciples, “_Behold, I say to you, lift up your eyes and look at the fields, for they are already white for harvest!_” How should we understand this today?
	- Moms do a lot of sowing.
- With respect to the fields being white for harvest, and Jesus’ exhortation in Matthew 9:37-38 emphasizing “_The harvest truly is plentiful, but the laborers are few. Therefore, pray the Lord of the harvest to send out laborers into His harvest._” Do you see the fields white for harvest and if so, do you pray the Lord of harvest send out laborers? Which fields? Do you ever pray this prayer? If not, why not?