HOMEWORK
Complete this section before beginning the next lesson. Take your time! Be intentional, and create a daily routine of getting into the Word and spending time in prayer.
“Set your minds on things that are above, not on things that are on earth. For you have died, and your life is hidden with Christ in God.” Colossians 3:2-3
MAKING THE CONNECTION
“God gives us something that a 12-step program never can. He gives us a new identity in Jesus Christ. We’re not lost forever and chained to our old identity. In Jesus we are totally freed from that old person, that old man.” -Jeff Durbin
Have you ever felt like your addiction is just part of who you are? That it’s part of your nature? Before you believed in Christ, it was! Apart from Christ, sin comes as naturally as breathing; it defines us and it is our identity when God looks at us. Ephesians 2:1-3 teaches us that because of our sin we are spiritually dead, “sons of disobedience,” and naturally “children of wrath.” Is there a worse way to be identified? But after diagnosing the absolute desperation caused by our sin, the next couple of verses give us a tremendous amount of hope:
“But God, being rich in mercy, because of the great love with which he loved us, even when we were dead in our trespasses, made us alive together with Christ—by grace you have been saved....” (Ephesians 2:4-5)
 
  In other words, because of God’s great love, he has shown us extreme mercy and given us a new life through Christ even though our sin meant he didn't have to. This is grace! Out of someone else’s sheer goodness, we get what we don’t deserve. We’re saved from our old self, sin, and death, and given new life, a new self, a new identity in Christ only because God loves us and showed us mercy.
But what does it mean now to live in that new life, to have a new identity in Christ? Sometimes you still act like your old self; you still do the same things you did before you became a Christian. You still have this addiction that keeps you in chains. You know the gospel and remind yourself of it, but still find yourself living a life of shame and regret because of your addiction.
GETTING IN THE WORD
When Paul wrote his letter to the church in the small city of Colossae, he was likely imprisoned in Rome. The goal of his letter was to encourage the Colossian church in their beliefs, and respond to the threat of false teaching that would hinder their spiritual growth and maturity. Although we don’t know the precise nature of the dangerous teaching facing the Colossians, we do know that Paul’s answer was Christ — how supreme he is over all creation, and sufficient he is to help us in our daily pursuit of holiness.
These words were penned almost 2,000 years ago, yet they remain just as relevant to our own churches and personal struggles today. We have to be on guard against any teaching that would have us believe we have the power to break the chains of sexual addiction on our own. We need a miracle — and we’re promised one in Colossians 3. By the time we arrive at Colossians 3, Paul has already repeatedly called attention to the work of Christ on behalf of his people, as well as alluded to the idea that in Christ we have a new identity (1:12-14: 1:21- 23;
Read Colossians 3:1-17
1. Summarizethispassageinafewsentences.Pointoutthingsthatimmediatelystandoutto you and how they address your addiction.
2. Rereadverses1-4.Wherehaveyoufoundyouridentityinthepast?Inwhatfiveways does Paul now identify you with Christ? How do you feel reading that this is what has happened (and will happen) to you because of your union with Christ?
3. Paulencouragesyoutosetyourmindon“thingsthatareabove”twiceinverses1-2,and contrasts them with things that are on earth. What things do you think he has in mind? In the battle against sexual sin, how does it help to set your mind on these things that are above?

  3. Asheoftendoesinhiswriting,Paulelaboratesbywritingouttwoopposinglists;thefirstis the “put to death these things” and don’t-be-like-this list — the bad one. But what is our motivation for killing those sins? (hint: “therefore”)
4. SinceyournewidentityinChristleadstothedeathofthosesins,nowyouhavefreedom to walk in a new way, to be a new person. As a new person, how do you become less and less like the old person (v 10)? What needs to change in your life in order to be “renewed in knowledge”? More time in the Bible? Connect with a local church or community of believers? Reading something different or watching something different on television, computer, phone, tablet, etc.? Be specific.
5. Rereadthetwolists;thenegativeone(verses5-9)andthepositiveone(verses12-17). Notice that each section contains both actions to stop doing, and actions to start doing. But they also reveal negative and positive ways to be or not be, things that have to do with your character — who you are on the inside. Go through each section slowly and evaluate yourself. Which things on the bad list are you growing away from? In which things are you stagnant? On the good list, where are you growing, and where do you need to grow?
6. Noticealltheactivecommandsinverses5-14:puttodeath,putthemallaway,donotlie, put on, bear with one another, forgive, put on love. Now read verses 15-16. How are these two verses similar to each other?
How are they different from verses 9-14 in what they command?
7. CanpornographyandthepeaceofChristruleinyourheartsimultaneously?Canlustand addiction remain if the word of Christ is dwelling in you richly? Why or why not?
NOW WHAT
As you wage war against sexual sin, remember that when you died with Christ your old nature (identity) died as well. Now that your life is hidden in his, your life can reflect Christ’s. That’s the good news of the gospel! You’ve been forgiven, set free, given a new life, a fresh start, and you’re not who you were before you put your faith in Christ. You don't even have to be who you were yesterday. Your identity in Christ empowers you to live in freedom from your old sin.
What can you do today in order to address some of the changes we read about in the passage? Taking this course is a great start. Spend time in the Bible; learn about what God says, the promises and warnings he makes, and how your story fits into his. Pray for new desires. Pray for strength to fight! Do some honest evaluation and consider sharing your journey with a trusted friend or spiritual mentor. Let the gospel do its work; as your heart and mind are renewed with knowledge, you will see your desires and actions begin to change. As Jeff said at the end of the video, sin will lose its luster — and as it does, it will lose its power over you!
