As Falstaff says in Henry IV, "Lord Lord, how this world is given to lying" (Henry IV 5.4.145-146). Few things appeal more to the modern audience than humor. Few things are more memorable than ironic hypocritical dishonesty. Few things are more essential than the truth. Tranio pretends to be Lucentio. Falstaff's repeatedly claims to be heroic. And King Lear's oldest daughters claim to love him the most. Shakespeare's theatrical use of deceit in his stories is ridiculous, revealing, and relatable. 

Shakespeare's deceit is ridiculous. For instance, the great comedy The Taming of the Shrew is a masterpiece of deceit and confusion. Within the first few scenes, Hortensio transforms into Litio and Tranio transforms into Lucentio while the real Lucentio pretends to be Cambio. Shock of all shocks, when Baptista demands the false Lucentio's father's approval, he hatches a plan to get a merchant to pretend to be the true Vincentio. First, the false Lucentio convinces the poor merchant that his life is in danger. He then offers to protect him as long as the merchant pretends to be his father, Vincentio. However, when the real Vincentio arrives, he is greeted at the window by the false Vincentio and is told to skedaddle. Naturally, Vincentio refuses. But then the false Vincentio threatens to imprison the real Vincentio declaring, "I believe he means to cozen somebody in this city under my countenance." (Shrew 5.1.31-32).

Shakespeare's deceit is revealing. Often we don't see the perfect pictures we paint with our "white lies." However, when seeing the same in theater, the irony becomes poignant. For instance, in the King Henry IV fall staff sets up a false narrative for his coward during the robbery. He declares he was attacked by, at first, 100 men, then 50 then four, then seven, then 11 until finally, Prince Hal drops the truth bomb. Not only did fall staff run when he outnumbered his opponents, but then he invented a backstory supplemented with evidence of a damaged sword. But is Falstaff defeated, no. Falstaff illogically claims that he knew Hal was the prince the entire time and thus was instinctually afraid to attack him. As Falstaff says, "Instinct is a great matter" (Henry IV 2.4.275).

Shakespeare's deceit is relatable. It connects him to his audience in a powerful way: there are always lies and liars. "How this world is given to lying" (Henry IV 5.4.145-146). In King Lear, King Lear feels a incredible need for approval from his daughters. But when he asks them to flatter him, his two older daughters, Reagan and Goneril are up to the challenge. "Sir, I love you more than words can wield the matter, dearer than eyesight, space and liberty; beyond which can be valued rich or rare; no less than life, with grace, health, beauty, honor; as much as a child loved, or father found; A love that makes breath so poor a speech unable; beyond all manner of so much I love you" (Lear 54-60) A few acts later, she kicks him out. Not only that, Reagan and Gail conspire to steal Lears final safety of 100 soldiers. Furthermore, Reagan literally locked him out of her house. Eventually, King Lear is executed on their behalf. Shakespeare's deceit is potent, and truth is more important than ever.

[Shakespeare Summer B Final Exam | Schoology](https://scholars.veritaspress.com/course/7261370983/assessments/7283821391)

> As Falstaff says in Henry IV, "Lord Lord, how this world is given to lying" (Henry IV 5.4.145-146). Few things appeal more to the modern audience than humor. Few things are more memorable than ironic hypocritical dishonesty. Few things are more essential than the truth. Tranio pretends to be Lucentio. Falstaff's repeatedly claims to be heroic. And King Lear's oldest daughters claim to love him the most. Shakespeare's theatrical use of deceit in his stories is ridiculous, revealing, and relatable. 

> Shakespeare's deceit is ridiculous. For instance, the great comedy The Taming of the Shrew is a masterpiece of deceit and confusion. Within the first few scenes, Hortensio transforms into Litio and Tranio transforms into Lucentio while the real Lucentio pretends to be Cambio. Shock of all shocks, when Baptista demands the false Lucentio's father's approval, he hatches a plan to get a merchant to pretend to be the true Vincentio. First, the false Lucentio convinces the poor merchant that his life is in danger. He then offers to protect him as long as the merchant pretends to be his father, Vincentio. However, when the real Vincentio arrives, he is greeted at the window by the false Vincentio and is told to skedaddle. Naturally, Vincentio refuses. But then the false Vincentio threatens to imprison the real Vincentio declaring, "I believe he means to cozen somebody in this city under my countenance." (Shrew 5.1.31-32).

> Shakespeare's deceit is revealing. Often we don't see the perfect pictures we paint with our "white lies." However, when seeing the same in theater, the irony becomes poignant. For instance, in the King Henry IV fall staff sets up a false narrative for his coward during the robbery. He declares he was attacked by, at first, 100 men, then 50 then four, then seven, then 11 until finally, Prince Hal drops the truth bomb. Not only did fall staff run when he outnumbered his opponents, but then he invented a backstory supplemented with evidence of a damaged sword. But is Falstaff defeated, no. Falstaff illogically claims that he knew Hal was the prince the entire time and thus was instinctually afraid to attack him. As Falstaff says, "Instinct is a great matter" (Henry IV 2.4.275).

> Shakespeare's deceit is relatable. It connects him to his audience in a powerful way: there are always lies and liars. "How this world is given to lying" (Henry IV 5.4.145-146). In King Lear, King Lear feels a incredible need for approval from his daughters. But when he asks them to flatter him, his two older daughters, Reagan and Goneril are up to the challenge. "Sir, I love you more than words can wield the matter, dearer than eyesight, space and liberty; beyond which can be valued rich or rare; no less than life, with grace, health, beauty, honor; as much as a child loved, or father found; A love that makes breath so poor a speech unable; beyond all manner of so much I love you" (Lear 54-60) A few acts later, she kicks him out. Not only that, Reagan and Gail conspire to steal Lears final safety of 100 soldiers. Furthermore, Reagan literally locked him out of her house. Eventually, King Lear is executed on their behalf. Shakespeare's deceit is potent, and truth is more important than ever.